Have you ever given a speech and then
been asked questions by the audience
that you don't know the answers to? In
my opinion, Q&A after a presentation is
one of the hardest things to deal with
when it comes to public speaking. And in
this video, I am going to give you a few
tips of how you can become more
confident and not be afraid of questions
from the audience after your speech.
Getting asked questions by an audience
after a speech can be scary, but there
are things you can do to prepare for
this that are going to help you. And the
first thing is attending to a
Toastmasters meeting because Toast
Masters has this type of practice built
into it through something called table
topics. The idea with table topics is
that every session a few people are
asked impromptu questions. So for
example, the table topics master may
come up to the front and say, "What is
the best chocolate bar and why?" And
then everyone starts clapping and you
walk to the front of the room and you
have to deliver an answer between one
and two minutes to explain what you
think the best chocolate bar is and why.
And when you go to meetings on a regular
basis and you get in the habit of being
put in this uncomfortable position, you
start to grow the ability to think quick
on your feet and be able to respond to
these types of questions. If you're
giving a speech and you expect you will
be asked audience questions at some
point, one thing you can do to prepare
is use chat GBT, especially the voice
function. And when you're practicing
your speech, you can click on the audio
and speak into the phone as well. And
then at the end of the speech, you can
instruct chat GPT to give you five
random questions based on the material
you just presented. And if you really
want to niche down and get dialed in
questions that you are likely to be
asked, you can give more information to
chat GPT. You can say, "I am speaking to
a room full of 20 and 30 year old young
professionals in the real estate
industry. What are questions they might
ask me after this presentation?"
By doing that sort of research and using
AI to help you prepare, there is a high
likelihood that it will give you some
questions which you are likely to
receive on the actual day of giving your
speech. Dealing with audience questions
after giving a speech is very difficult.
But one way you can buy yourself a
little bit more time is by bringing
water on stage with you. If you have a
water bottle and you are asked a
question,
after the questions asked, you can take
a moment, take a sip,
and then respond to the question. And
that might not seem like a lot of time.
It's only a few seconds, but you'd be
surprised how that extra couple seconds
gives you just a moment to think and
slow down. And it doesn't look odd. If a
speaker has a water bottle and they're
turning to the audience and asking
questions, nobody is going to think it's
odd that you take a quick sip of water
before you give your answer. The other
benefit to this, our bodies do some
weird things when we're public speaking
and we're dealing with the nerves and
the stress. And one of those things is
that our mouths get quite dry. And if
you're noticing that your mouth is
getting dry, this is another reason to
have water on the stage. But especially
when it comes to Q&A, it will buy you
those few extra seconds which can help
you think of a better way to respond to
the question. When amateur speakers get
questions after their presentation from
the audience, they often speak quickly
and they ramble and they add a lot of
filler words like uh um yeah, that's a
good question. And um if I had to uh
because they feel the need to speak
constantly and to not allow silence to
happen. But one way you can deal with
audience questions is to slow down, to
calm down, to really listen to what is
being asked. And then you can also ask
the individual to repeat the question.
And this is important for a couple of
reasons. First, if you're giving
presentation to a room and there's not a
mic runner providing the audience with a
microphone to ask their question and
they're simply shouting the question up
to you, the speaker who's on stage,
there's a good chance everyone else in
the room or most other people in the
room did not properly hear the question.
So, if you receive the question, you can
then repeat it. One, this clarifies with
the individual that you understood what
the question was. Two, it gives the rest
of the audience the ability to hear what
the question is, but three, and most
important, it gives you another moment
to have a bit of a pause, to take a
breath, to allow your brain to think of
how you're going to respond to that
question. Don't be afraid to add a
little bit of silence as you do think.
Obviously, you don't want that to be too
long or it might seem a little bit
awkward, but know that most people will
default by rushing and try to jump right
in and answer the question.
[sighs] But if you can take a breath,
slow down, it's not going to sound
weird, it's actually going to sound more
thoughtful and it will give you a bit
more time to think up an appropriate
response. The problem with ending your
speech with questions and opening it up
to the audience to ask you questions is
that you don't control the way your
speech ends. I've talked a lot about how
I think the best speeches are the ones
that end full circle. What this means is
that the first thing you say in your
speech is also the last thing you
reference in the speech, which brings
everything together. The problem is if
you do that for your speech and then you
open it to audience questions, you are
at the whim of whatever is asked of the
last thing the audience will remember.
So one strategy I've seen a few speakers
do which is really powerful is by
delaying the ending of their speech and
bringing audience questions in a little
bit earlier. And how they do this is
they say, "I have a final thought I'm
going to end on, but I want to open it
up for about 10 minutes of audience
questions. Do we have any questions from
the audience?" And then they'll take
those in. And then when they deem the
timing is right, they'll say, "All
right." And they'll transition back into
that final thought, which hopefully ties
everything together. This is a pro move.
It's something that amateur speakers
usually won't think to do. But those who
understand the power of leaving on a
great impression with the audience,
leaving on a high, they implement this
technique to control the ending of their
speech. If you're giving a speech and
you're really nervous about the
questions that might happen from the
audience, ensure the timing of your full
speech makes sense. For example, if you
are asked to give a one-hour
presentation, what often happens is
people will practice their speech up to
an hour by themselves and then they get
in front of a room of people and the
nerves set in and the heart rate
increases and they speak faster. And so
that 60inute practiced by themselves
presentation now turns into a 40inute
presentation. And then if they open it
up to audience questions, now that's 20
minutes of audience questions, which is
a lot of time to be asked questions that
you can't prepare for.
For some people, they want to dominate
their speech with Q&A. And so if that's
you, that's fine. But if that's not your
plan, if you only want a few audience
questions,
do a lot of practice of your speech to
get the timing dialed. And then when you
give the presentation, be mindful of
slowing down. Another way you can
practice this is when you're practicing
a speech, practice with an elevated
heart rate. Do a five minute jog before
you practice your speech. And when you
get used to practicing with an elevated
heart rate, you'll notice you may speak
quicker. And this might give your timing
a more accurate representation for what
it's going to be like in front of an
actual audience. But that is an
important tip is to ensure you're
controlling the timing within your
speech so that you don't leave too much
time to the audience to dominate with
all Q&A. My final tip for dealing with
Q&A questions that might come from an
audience after giving a speech is to be
honest, to be authentic. If you don't
know the answer, don't completely
pretend that you do and make something
up. It's okay if you don't know the
answer. And in fact, there's often times
where you can be honest that you don't
know the specific answer, but still add
value with your response. For example,
if I'm giving a speech about social
media to an audience, and I'm asked,
"How many monthly active users are on
Tik Tok?"
Well, that's a very specific question,
and I don't know that off the top of my
head. So rather than guessing at what
the answer might be or rather than
completely saying I I don't know, sorry
and that's it, you can be honest but
provide value. So I can say I don't know
the specific answer to that question of
how many monthly active users are on Tik
Tok. But here's what I do know. Tik Tok
is one of the fastest growing social
media platforms. And for many years it
was decided that it was only Gen Z that
was on this platform. But we've seen
more and more millennials who are using
it as well as even some baby boomer
boomers who are trying to experiment
with Tik Tok. Therefore, for your
business, I think Tik Tok is an
important social media platform for you
to consider.
With that type of response, you didn't
answer the question, but you also
provided some value, some context. You
can also suggest that you will look up
the answer at some point. Perhaps
connect with them after the speech and
find out and then respond. There's all
sorts of options, but don't feel the
need that you have to make something up.
It's okay if you don't know the answer,
but there are ways to still provide your
audience with value. I hope this video
on dealing with Q&A from an audience has
been helpful to you. A few things. If it
was helpful, comment, let me know. Like
the video so more people can see this
content. If you have not already done
so, please subscribe to my channel. It
is the single best way you can help more
people learn about impactful
communication. And check out the video
that's popping up right now. Earlier I
referenced table topics, and this video
is going to dive in to all things table
topics when it comes to Toast Masters.
Thanks so much for watching this video
and I hope you have an amazing